{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red55\green55\blue55;\red255\green255\blue255;\red76\green76\blue76;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red246\green246\blue246;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27843\c27843\c27843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c36863\c36863\c36863;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c97255\c97255\c97255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl453\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32\fsmilli16200 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Problem 2 - Paying Debt Off in a Year\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf4 \strokec4 15.0 points possible (graded)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa453\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 Now write a program that calculates the minimum\'a0
\b fixed
\b0 \'a0monthly payment needed in order pay off a credit card balance within 12 months. By a fixed monthly payment, we mean a single number which does not change each month, but instead is a constant amount that will be paid each month.\cb1 \
\cb3 In this problem, we will\'a0
\i not
\i0 \'a0be dealing with a minimum monthly payment rate.\cb1 \
\cb3 The following variables contain values as described below:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl448\sa453\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cf5 \cb6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 balance
\f0\fs32 \cb3 \'a0- the outstanding balance on the credit card\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cb6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 annualInterestRate
\f0\fs32 \cb3 \'a0- annual interest rate as a decimal\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa453\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 The program should print out one line: the lowest monthly payment that will pay off all debt in under 1 year, for example:\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cf5 \cb6 Lowest Payment: 180 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa453\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf5 \cb1 \
\cb3 Assume that the interest is compounded monthly according to the balance at the end of the month (after the payment for that month is made). The monthly payment must be a multiple of $10 and is the same for all months. Notice that it is possible for the balance to become negative using this payment scheme, which is okay. A summary of the required math is found below:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa453\partightenfactor0

\b \cf5 \cb3 Monthly interest rate
\b0 \'a0= (Annual interest rate) / 12.0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\b \cb3 Monthly unpaid balance
\b0 \'a0= (Previous balance) - (Minimum fixed monthly payment)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\b \cb3 Updated balance each month
\b0 \'a0= (Monthly unpaid balance) + (Monthly interest rate x Monthly unpaid balance)\cb1 \

\b \cb3 Test Cases to Test Your Code With.
\b0 \'a0Be sure to test these on your own machine - and that you get the same output! - before running your code on this webpage!\cb1 \
}